---
layout: post
title: "Pandemic board."
date: 2019-12-26
thumbnail: thumbnail.png
dependencies:
---

{% raw %}

<style>
p    {text-align: justify;}
.center {
  margin: auto;
  display: table;
  padding: 10px;
}

#wrapper {
    height: auto;
    width: 600px;
    margin: auto;
    padding-bottom: 30px;
    text-align: center;
    font-size: 80%;
}
#home1 {
    width: 47.5%;
    float: left;
    margin-right: 5%;
}

#home2 {
    width: 47.5%;
    float: right;
}

.column {
  float: 50%;
  padding: 5px;
}

.row {
  display: flex;
}
</style>

{% endraw %}

# Our beautiful world

{% raw %}
<div style="width:iframe width px; font-size:80%; text-align:center; padding-bottom:30px;"><iframe class="track center" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" onload="resizeIframe(this)" src="p5/board/index.html"></iframe>
Select a city and press i to infect, select a colored slice and press c to cure.
</div>
{% endraw %}

The Pandemic board is a surpsingly tricky board to generate. The actual location of cities is much more clumped together. The authors of the game solved the problem by spacing them nicely and using some thin lines to point to the actual location, I refused to do it manually. What I settled for is a spacing of the cities using random diplacements and a bit of searching for a decent seed. The names still overlap with one another but hey, life is unfair.
The controls also require some hacking. The game uses colored cubes to represent viral "loads". How can we do the same using only a click? The current approach uses key presses to determine the action and mouse location to discriminate between different infections. Since p5 provide only a nice plain canvas I didn't attach callback to the "slices" (in a D3 fashion). Instead I used a common trick, often used to select objects in 3D space. It relies on having unique colors and determines what the intended target is by checking the color of the pixel currently under the pointer. Neat.


{% raw %}
<script>
function resizeIframe(obj) {
obj.style.height = obj.contentWindow.document.body.scrollHeight + 'px';
obj.style.width = obj.contentWindow.document.body.scrollWidth + 'px';
}
</script>
<script src="appear.js"></script>
<script>
appear({
init: function init(){
console.log('dom is ready');
},
elements: function elements(){
// work with all elements with the class "track"
return document.getElementsByClassName('track');
},
appear: function appear(el){
if(el.contentWindow.loop != undefined){
    el.contentWindow.loop();
    console.log(el.src, 'playing')
}
},
disappear: function disappear(el){
if(el.contentWindow.noLoop != undefined){
    el.contentWindow.noLoop();
    console.log(el.src,'stopped')
}
},
bounds: 200,
reappear: true
});
</script>
{% endraw %}
