---
layout: post
title: 'Spiky neurons.'
date: 2019-02-19
thumbnail: thumbnail.png
dependencies:
---

# Neurons

Modelling the spreading of infection was fun but wasn't it a bit unfair for those poor aiport security officers? Every single infected carrier had an equal chance to spread its infection to every outgoing plane. Why not add some kind of threshold that the number of infected individuals in an airport has to reach before they can spread?

Mmmm... that sounds familiar. Isn't it more or less what happens with neurons? They receive impulses from neighbours and if the amount of stimulation reaches a certain threshold they fire a new impulse.
Let's try to model that. The rules of the game are:

-   Neurons fire when the incoming impulses surpass a certain Threshold.
-   Incoming impulses add up, but constantly decay at a fixed rate.
-   Each time a neuron fires the threshold for firing is raised.

{% raw %}

<iframe class="track" frameborder="0" marginheight="20" marginwidth="35" scrolling="no" onload="resizeIframe(this)" src="p5/threshold/index.html"></iframe>
{% endraw %}

{% raw %}<br><br/>{% endraw %}

# Network structure

The next question is "How do we build the components?".
Since we are going to go with the brain analogy it makes sense to have a local connectivity, rather than a global one where nodes have equal probability of wiring with neighbors and nodes on the opposite side of the network. We are going to use a type of network called [Geometric Random Graph](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Random_geometric_graph). In this type of network the connectivity is controlled by a radius parameter, such that each node wires with all the nodes within that radius. Below you can see how the number of links and connected components vary as the radius parameter changes.

{% raw %}

<iframe class="track" frameborder="0" marginheight="20" marginwidth="35" scrolling="no" onload="resizeIframe(this)" src="p5/growingnets/index.html"></iframe>
{% endraw %}

{% raw %}<br><br/>{% endraw %}

# Simulation

Let's see what happens when a lof neurons interact. Since these sketches are running on your computer and I don't want it to catch fire I've encoded the number of impulses travelling on a edge in its thickness. Much easier to render and even nicer to watch. Also, since the edges are semi-transparent you can eye ball the amount of activity in each zone by the intensity of the "redness".

(Hint: use the mouse wheel to release tons of impulses)

{% raw %}

<iframe class="track" frameborder="0" marginheight="20" marginwidth="35" scrolling="no" onload="resizeIframe(this)" src="p5/spiketrain/index.html"></iframe>
{% endraw %}

# Spike trains

{% raw %}

<iframe frameborder="0" marginheight="20" marginwidth="35" scrolling="no" onload="resizeIframe(this)" src="p5/inout/index.html"></iframe>
{% endraw %}

{% raw %}

<script>
function resizeIframe(obj) {
obj.style.height = obj.contentWindow.document.body.scrollHeight + 'px';
obj.style.width = obj.contentWindow.document.body.scrollWidth + 'px';
}
</script>
<script src="appear.js"></script>
<script>
appear({
init: function init(){
console.log('dom is ready');
},
elements: function elements(){
// work with all elements with the class "track"
return document.getElementsByClassName('track');
},
appear: function appear(el){
if(el.contentWindow.loop != undefined){
    el.contentWindow.loop();
    //console.log(el.src, 'playing')
}
},
disappear: function disappear(el){
if(el.contentWindow.noLoop != undefined){
    el.contentWindow.noLoop();
    //console.log(el.src,'stopped')
}
},
bounds: 200,
reappear: true
});
</script>

{% endraw %}
