---
layout: post
title: 'Neuromodularity'
date: 2019-02-19
thumbnail: thumbnail.png
dependencies:
---
{% raw %}

<style>
p    {text-align: justify;}
.center {
  margin: auto;
  display: table;
  padding: 10px;
}
</style>

{% endraw %}

# Geometric graphs 
When working with networks it is common to assume that edge properties and node properties are somewhat independent. Nodes often contain information about the entity they represent and edges describe the relationships between those entities. However in practice it is often the case that nodes may be embedded in some space of interested. Let us consider the case where nodes represent cities and edges are the roads between them. It is intuitive to assume that each node (i.e. city) is associated with some coordinates. Given the coordinates of a node it is natural to assume that each link (i.e. road) has a certain length that might not be explicitly listed among the properties of those edges. These extra piece of information is induced by the the space in which the nodes are embedded thanks to some **distance metric** (e.g. Euclidean distance) defined on it.
When this extra information is avaible we can employ it to enrich the mechamism that shape our networks. For example we can decide that nodes are able to make connections only within a certain "range" define by that distance like in the sketch below.
{% raw %}
<div style="width:iframe width px; font-size:80%; text-align:center; padding-bottom:30px;"><iframe class="track center" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" onload="resizeIframe(this)" src="p5/geometricgraph/index.html"></iframe>
Moving the slider from <font color="green">local</font> to <font color="red">global</font> increases the range at which node can form connections. Click to sample new networks.
</div>
{% endraw %}
The next question is "How do we build the components?".
Since we are going to go with the brain analogy it makes sense to have a local connectivity, rather than a global one where nodes have equal probability of wiring with neighbors and nodes on the opposite side of the network. We are going to use a type of network called [Geometric Random Graph](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Random_geometric_graph). In this type of network the connectivity is controlled by a radius parameter, such that each node wires with all the nodes within that radius. Below you can see how the number of links and connected components vary as the radius parameter changes.

{% raw %}
<iframe class="track center" frameborder="0" marginheight="20" marginwidth="35" scrolling="no" onload="resizeIframe(this)" src="p5/growingnets/index.html"></iframe>
{% endraw %}

{% raw %}<br><br/>{% endraw %}

# Complex contagion

Let's try to model that. The rules of the game are:

-   Neurons fire when the incoming impulses surpass a certain Threshold.
-   Incoming impulses add up, but constantly decay at a fixed rate.
-   Each time a neuron fires the threshold for firing is raised.

{% raw %}
<iframe class="track center" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" onload="resizeIframe(this)" src="p5/threshold/index.html" align="middle"></iframe>
{% endraw %}

{% raw %}<br><br/>{% endraw %}


# Spreading dynamics

Let's see what happens when a lof neurons interact. Since these sketches are running on your computer and I don't want it to catch fire I've encoded the number of impulses travelling on a edge in its thickness. Much easier to render and even nicer to watch. Also, since the edges are semi-transparent you can eye ball the amount of activity in each zone by the intensity of the "redness".

(Hint: use the mouse wheel to release tons of impulses)

{% raw %}
<iframe class="track center" frameborder="0" marginheight="20" marginwidth="35" scrolling="no" onload="resizeIframe(this)" src="p5/spiketrain/index.html"></iframe>
{% endraw %}

# Neural reservoirs 

{% raw %}

<iframe class="track center" frameborder="0" marginheight="20" marginwidth="35" scrolling="no" onload="resizeIframe(this)" src="p5/inout/index.html"></iframe>
{% endraw %}

{% raw %}

<script>
function resizeIframe(obj) {
obj.style.height = obj.contentWindow.document.body.scrollHeight + 'px';
obj.style.width = obj.contentWindow.document.body.scrollWidth + 'px';
}
</script>
<script src="appear.js"></script>
<script>
appear({
init: function init(){
console.log('dom is ready');
},
elements: function elements(){
// work with all elements with the class "track"
return document.getElementsByClassName('track');
},
appear: function appear(el){
if(el.contentWindow.loop != undefined){
    el.contentWindow.loop();
    console.log(el.src, 'playing')
}
},
disappear: function disappear(el){
if(el.contentWindow.noLoop != undefined){
    el.contentWindow.noLoop();
    console.log(el.src,'stopped')
}
},
bounds: 200,
reappear: true
});
</script>

{% endraw %}
